---
title: "Final Project Blog 1: Project Proposal"
date: 2023-05-25
---

Do you ever get to a café, and while standing in line, think to yourself, "I wish I could practice ordering this menu item before I went up to the counter"? Do you ever mentally rehearse your order before placing an order because you're anxious that you might mess up or say the wrong thing?

We have just the final project for you! Introducing: **Ordering Simulator 2023**.

# Project description

Our final project for CSE 165 is **Ordering Simulator 2023**, a virtual environment in which users simulate standing in line in a restaurant or café and ordering an item off the menu. For the purposes of this final project, we will be building out one ordering location (i.e. one café). Users will select a menu item they want to practice ordering, then will experience waiting in line to get to order, then reaching the front of the counter and having a conversation to order their chosen menu item. The goal of this project is to provide folks who suffer from social anxiety, who might have trouble ordering items in the real world, a safe space to practice these sorts of interactions from the comfort of a virtual environment.

The members in this final group project are **David Cao, Jeremy Lei, and Thomas Wang** (not enrolled on Canvas).

# Technical aspects

- **Selection**: during the main game flow, we plan on having menus available on the side that users can grab (via a gesture) to look at the menu while they stand in line (simulating the equivalent real-life experience!)
- **Manipulation**: Goes with the above, while a user is holding the menu they can move the menu around and potentially increase its size to see the order better.
- **Travel**: We plan on having travel via teleportation. Users will point with their left hand, then perform a gesture to teleport there.
- **System control**: we plan on adding in a main menu where users can pick between scenarios and menu items to try to order.
- **Symbolic input**: When a user is interacting with the person behind the counter to order, we plan on using voice recognition to allow the user to express their order naturally.
- **Hand tracking**: The game will use hand tracking for all interactions.

# Creative aspects

We plan to spend our creative energy for this project in two parts:

- **Environment design**
	- Designing the café environment to look realistic and engaging, like a real café! Adding opportune places to add spots for menus
	- The virtual experience is basically a game, so we want to make sure the level design is both engaging and clear (wayfinding via engaging and clear world design).
- **Interaction design**
	- For the main interaction of this experience—ordering a menu item—we're currently thinking through a number of ways to make this interaction more engaging
	- One potential idea is using some sort of LLM API for the responses of the person taking the order at the counter, so that these responses can created on-the-fly in response to the user's inputs and actions
	- We're also thinking about designs for captions. Should they appear in a fixed place on the screen, should they appear near the characters talking, etc.

